# CS-255--System-Analysis-and-Design
This repository contains coursework and projects completed as part of my Systems Analysis and Design class.

The DriverPass System project was designed for a driving lessons training company called DriverPass. The client asked for a web-based system that could help users prepare better for their DMV drving tests by offering driving instruction information, online practice tests, and providing in-person driving lesson appointments. The system also had to manage the roles of the users, track student progress, schedule appointments efficiently, assign drivers and vehicles to the appointments, track activity and support administration. 

I did particularly well identifying and organizing functions and nonfunctional requirements. I was able to break down the system into different user roles, such as customers, scretaries, drivers, owners, and IT administrators, and clearly define what each user needed to do within the system. This was important to make sure the design was clearly structured, organized and realistically aligned with the client's goals.

One part of my work I would revise would be the system design diagrams, I would make the relationships clearer by making them more detailed. I would refine the connections between different processes, such as scheduling and availability checks, and makes sure that all decision points and outcomes are labeled more clearely. This would make the diagrams easier to understand for both technical and nontechnical audiences. 

I interpreted the user's needs by analyzing the client's goals, for example the client stated students were failing DMV tests and they wanted to create a system to better organize lessons and provide driving training. I took those needs and incorporated them in the system as online practice tests, scheduling tools, progress tracking, and secure account management. It is important to consider and analyze the user's needs because the system must be useful and easy for the people that will be interacting with it. If the user's needs are not properly understood then the system may not effectively attend to those needs.

I approach software design by first analyzing the stakeholder's needs and goals and identifying all the problems their system may encounter. Then, I break the system into smaller components, define all the proper requirements and create all the necessary visual requirements, such as use case, activity, sequence and class diagrams, to better understand and represent how the system will function. In the future, I would continue using strategies such as gathering requirements to clearly understand stakeholders’ goals and needs, creating detailed diagrams to fully map out every part of the system, and applying iterative design to continuously refine and improve every aspect of the system.
